1. LLM decides which tools to call with which arguments.
2. LangCahin will rend this function with argument.
3. Pydantic is the most widely used data validation library for Python.
4. Large Language Models (LLMs)
    LLMs, such as OpenAI’s GPT series or Google’s PaLM, are advanced neural networks trained on vast amounts of text data. Their primary function is to generate coherent and contextually relevant text based on input prompts. These models are incredibly versatile and capable of tasks such as:
    
    - Writing essays, articles, or code.
    - Translating languages.
    - Summarizing complex texts.
    - Engaging in conversational AI.
    
    Strengths of LLMs:
    
    1. Generative Power: LLMs excel at producing fluent and human-like text.
    2. Broad Knowledge Base: Due to their training on diverse datasets, they can handle a wide range of topics.
    3. Ease of Use: LLMs require minimal setup and can function independently of additional systems.
    
    Limitations of LLMs:
    1. Knowledge Cutoff: LLMs can only generate information up to their training data’s scope.
    2. Hallucinations…
5. 10 Essential Topics to Master LLMs and Generative AI
     1. LLM Basics
    First and foremost, you need to understand the basics of generative AI and LLMs, such as key terminology, uses, potential issues, and primary frameworks. Before diving into LLMs and gen AI, you should know what the data is trained on and any potential biases/issues that there may be with the data so you can plan algorithms around it. You should also know exactly how big LLMs can be, how computationally expensive training will be, and the differences between training LLMs and machine learning models. Finally, know what you want it to do in the end. Don’t go in aimlessly expecting it to do everything. Do you want a chatbot, a Q&A system, or an image generator? Plan accordingly!
    
    2. Prompt Engineering
    Another buzzword you’ve likely heard of lately, prompt engineering means designing inputs for LLMs once they’re developed. Example: If you want an LLM to create social media copy for a marketing campaign, and the prompt “Create a Twitter post” is too vague, you can engineer it to be more specific, such as “Create a Twitter post geared towards millennials and keep it snappy.” This is where the art of artificial intelligence comes into play, and has even become its own job. You can even fine-tune prompts to get exactly what you want.
    
    3. Prompt Engineering with OpenAI
    As a leading figure in LLMs and generative AI, it’s important to know how to use prompt engineering specifically with OpenAI tools, as you’ll likely be using them at some point in your career. To get started, make sure that you’re using the latest version of the OpenAI API and/or whatever plugins and third-party tools you’re using. Some organizations use their own tools, such as Microsoft’s Azure OpenAI GPT Models, so make sure that you’re following their directions properly as well.
    
    4. Question-Answering
    Question-answering (QA) LLMs are a type of large language model that has been trained specifically to answer questions. They are trained on massive datasets of text and code, including text from books, articles, and code repositories. This allows them to learn the statistical relationships between words and phrases, and to understand the meaning of questions and answers. This is likely something you’ll be working on, and think of it like a more advanced (aka actually helpful!) chatbot.
    
    5. Fine-Tuning
    Fine-tuning can be used to improve the performance of an LLM on a variety of tasks, including text generation, translation, summarization, and question-answering. It is also used to customize LLMs for specific applications, such as customer service chatbots or medical diagnosis systems. There are a number of different ways to fine-tune an LLM. One common approach is to use supervised learning. This involves providing the LLM with a dataset of labeled data, where each data point is a pair of input and output. The LLM learns to map the input to the output by minimizing a loss function.
    
    6. Embedding Models
    Embedding models can be very useful when mapping natural language to vectors that are used by downstream LLMs. When it comes to fine-tuning a pipeline, since pipelines often include multiple models, several different models can be fine-tuned to better account for the nuances in your data. LLMs may leverage pre-trained word embeddings as part of their input or initialization, allowing them to benefit from the semantic information captured by the embedding models. The embedding models provide a foundation for understanding the meanings and relationships of individual words, which LLMs can build upon to generate coherent and contextually appropriate text.
    
    7. LangChain
    LangChain can be used to architect complex LLM pipelines by chaining multiple models together. However, since these models are incredibly flexible in what they can do (classification, text generation, code generation, etc.) we can integrate them with other systems — for example, we have a model generate the code to make an API call, write and execute data science code, query tabular data, the list goes on. We can use `Agents` to interact with all these external systems to execute actions dictated by LLMs. The fundamental idea of an Agent is to let the LLM choose an action or sequence of actions to take, given a various set of tools.
    
    8. Parameter Efficiency/Tuning
    Parameter-efficient fine-tuning is a technique in machine learning, particularly in the context of large neural language models like GPT or BERT, aimed at adapting these pre-trained models to specific tasks with minimal additional parameter overhead. Instead of fine-tuning the entire massive model, parameter-efficient fine-tuning adds a relatively small number of task-specific parameters or “adapters” to the pre-trained model. These adapters are compact, task-specific modules that are inserted into the model architecture, allowing it to adapt to new tasks without drastically increasing the model’s size.
    
    9. RAG
    RAG — aka Retrieval augmented generation — works by first using a retrieval-based model to retrieve relevant documents from a knowledge base, given the input text. The retrieved documents are then linked together with the input text and fed to a generative model. The generative model then generates the output text, taking into account both the input text and the retrieved documents.
    
    10 Natural Language Processing
    Last but certainly not least, you need to know quite a bit about natural language processing, aka NLP. LLMs and generative AI aren’t really a field of their own, as they’re both built on NLP principles LLMs are trained on massive datasets of text and code, and they use NLP techniques to understand the meaning of the data and to generate new text. If you don’t have a good understanding of NLP, it will be difficult to understand how LLMs work and how to use them effectively.
----------------
6. Step-by-Step Guide: Build, Train & Deploy Your Own LLM Model
    Components that help LLMs understand and act
        The LLM architecture and components have several neural network layers that work in tandem to process the text and generate a response according to the prompt entered by the user.
        
        1) Embedding layer
        The input text is received by the embedding layer, one of the important layers of LLM, which creates a vector representation of each word. The vector representation catches the word’s semantic and syntactic meaning and relates it to other words.
        
        2) The feedforward layer
        The feedword layer is really interesting as it helps understand the intent of user input. It is made up of many entirely connected layers that convert the input embeddings and extract higher-level abstractions.
        
        3) Recurrent layer
        The recurrent layer of the AI language model is responsible for decoding all the words in the input text in sequence and capturing the relationship between various words in a single sentence.
        
        4) The attention mechanism
    The attention mechanisms are derived from the human cognitive process. They compare the relevance of different words and tokens in the input sequence and focus only on the relevant part of the input. Together, these are the components that help LLMs understand and act.
    Various types of large language models (LLMs) for specific use-cases
    Many kinds of LLMs for customer service automation have been developed so far to fulfill the industry’s specific requirements. This is how you can categorize LLMs based on the sort of tasks they do:

        1) Autoregressive LLMs
        As the name suggests, autoregressive LLMs are trained to continue the text and give recommendations for the following sequence of words. They are pretty expensive computationally and can also provide irrelevant or monotonous responses.
        
        In the e-commerce sector, autoregressive LLMs can be used to provide customers with a personalized shopping experience by suggesting product recommendations based on their preferences.
        
        Example: GPT, BLOOM
        
        2) Transformer-based LLMs
        Unlike autoregressive models, which complete your sentence, transformer-based LLMs are one of the various types of Large language models that generate a response to your query. Their deep learning architecture captures long-range dependencies and contextual information.
        
        In the e-learning industry, transformer-based LLMs can be used to create intelligent tutoring systems that can generate detailed explanations and answers to student questions.
        
        Example: BERT
        
        3) Multilingual LLMs
        LLM for multilingual support systems is a form of cross-lingual model that can understand and respond to text in multiple languages. It can pass on knowledge from one language to another and can be used for machine translations or retrieval of important data.
        
        For instance, fintech companies that provide digital banking services can use LLMs to assist customers from diverse cultural and linguistic backgrounds.
        
        Example: XLM
        
        4) Hybrid
        Hybrid models are unified language models that combine the power of different architectures, such as transformer-based architecture and recurrent neural networks, to achieve the desired outcome.
        
        Example: UniLM
   What are the hardware requirements for training LLMs?
        Custom LLMs for businesses ask for an enormous amount of computational resources to train and process large datasets and model architectures. Let us go through the hardware requirements for training LLMs:
        
        1) Graphics processing unit (GPU)
        GPUs are the constitutive part of LLMs and are used to train and run them. Since GPUs can accelerate parallel computations, they are used for deep learning frameworks like TensorFlow and Pytorch for matrix multiplication and neural network training. When you are selecting a GPU, you should definitely compare their memory capacity, processing power, and bandwidth.
        
        2) Central Processing Unit (CPU)
        While your GPUs are doing all the heavy lifting work and neural network computations for your LLM, you need a smart CPU that can manage data processing, model setup, and coordination. Go for a CPU that can give you brilliant multi-threading performance and can be used for concurrently preprocessing large datasets and multiple workloads.
        
        3) Memory
        You must have RAM with high bandwidth that is capable of storing the gradient, architecture, and intermediate values while training large language models or conversational AI agents. As per NVIDIA, you must have at least double the amount of CPU memory to manage buffering competently, i.e. hundreds of gigabytes of RAM.
        
        4) Storage
        The large language model parameters and large datasets demand a lot of storage and servers to host databases. Instead of HDDs, you might want to choose highly capable storage solutions like SSDs, which have quick read and write speeds and can be used for storing and preprocessing data.
        
        5) Networking
        You must have an excellent internet connection to download data sets, establish communication between distributed systems, and share models quickly. Even if LLM parameters can be kept locally, network-attached storage is more advisable for you to back up your data and distribute it to multiple systems.
        
        6) Cooling and Power Supply
        When you train your Generative AI models, they will dissipate a lot of heat, which can be controlled with a custom liquid cooling setup, including radiators, pumps, and tubing. A custom liquid cooling setup will give a boost to the lifespan of your hardware and help it deliver the best performance without the worry of thermal throttling.
        
        7) Distributed computing
        If you are dealing with uncertain workloads and managing infrastructure is becoming difficult, prefer cloud solutions. Cloud platforms like AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud can be very helpful in offering virtual machine access. Cloud solutions can help scale your resources and reduce project delivery delays.
Steps to build and train your custom LLM
To achieve an amazing understanding capability, your LLM will have to go through a rigorous vetting process. For the beneficial use of LLMs for customer service automation and to get accurate responses, it is important for you to understand how to build and train your own large language model. Training and building LLMs from scratch involves the following steps:

    Step 1: Process the data
    Download raw and unfiltered data and parallelize the dataset builder process. Then, the data will be repartitioned and rewritten for downstream processing. For advanced data processing that requires several iterations, you can use Databricks to build your pipeline. After downloading the data, deduplicate it and fix the encoding errors.
    
    Step 2: Tokenize the data
    Tokenization is the most important step while building LLMs, as you will need it in model training and data pipeline. Before going into tokenization, you need to train the custom vocabulary with the help of a subsample of the data used for model training. After training your custom vocabulary, you can tokenize your data. It will develop your model’s understanding and code generation capability.
    
    Step 3: Train your model
    To establish the parameters of your LLM, compare the model size, inference time, context window, and memory footprint. Large LLMs will demand expensive computational requirements for inference and training. You need to decide from various training objectives and model configurations and then launch the training runs on multi-node GPU clusters.
    
    Step 4: Test your model
    To evaluate your model, use it to generate a block of code given a function signature and docstring. Run the test case in the function to understand whether the code block is functioning as per your expectations. Use frameworks like Hugging Face, PyTorch, or Open AI’s fine-tuning API to train models using large-scale training techniques.
    
    Step 5: Deploy your model
    After training and testing your LLM, the next step is to deploy it into production. Then you can autoscale your LLM to suit the requirements of your Kubernetes infrastructure. Before rolling out the model and making it live for the users, it is better to test it yourself and get a sense of how it will perform.
    
    Step 6: Gather feedback
    Monitor the performance of LLM for metrics like request latency and GPU utilization. Record the acceptance rate of code generated by the LLM to gain a quantitative understanding of the results. Note any changes in the underlying data sources, model training objectives, and server architecture.
    
 Best Large language models in 2025
As of 2025, these large language models are at the top of the industry due to their outstanding abilities in natural language processing, code synthesis, and scalability.
    1) GPT
    GPT-4o is a generative pre-trained transformer model capable of processing images and audio. It was developed by OpenAI, which created the first reasoning model and is also planning to launch a more powerful version this year. GPT-4o is used actively by companies such as Microsoft, Dropbox, Stripe, etc.
    
    2) Deepseek
    The DeepSeek-R1 model of a Chinese AI company called DeepSeek was trained under a high volume of reinforcement learning, focusing specifically on reasoning capabilities. It is excellent at managing long-form content and demonstrates better results for mathematical questions and code generation tasks than other LLMs.
    
    3) Qwen
    Alibaba developed the Qwen 2.5 model to meet the needs of enterprises and businesses. It is an LLM for multilingual support systems that covers around 29 languages and is excellent at code generation and debugging. Features for video generation that help create educational content for students, educators, and businesses make it one of the best large language models in 2025.

